---
title: "Welcome to my new site!"
date: "2018-09-02"
description: "I've just launched my new website, completely built in ReactJS"
author: "Sebastian Bailey"
fileName: "2018-09-02-welcome.md"
keywords:
  - react
  - coding
---

On the 1st September 2018 I launched the 3rd version of my website.

## Getting there

The last couple of years have been a whirlwind for me, and one of the many things I've managed to do is significantly increase my knowledge of Javascript and web development in general.

My job has allowed me to experiment with code, via prototyping, and even building a fairly complex Alexa skill. All of this has led me down a fairly development heavy path, although still as a designer thank god!

Diving head first into Framer, and having some fun with coffeescript really helped me to develop my core knowledge of the fundamentals, while building out an Alexa skill for ClearScore has taught me to write clean (relatively) and vanilla javascript and ES6.

## Why?

I built my last website in Angular & Wordpress, and it was starting to become a bit of a ball-ache to keep up to date. Even just adding a single image to my extra work page would mean having to update several files, which was completely against why I decided to use Angular in the first place.

So I've recently moved into a Design System Lead role at my current company, which obviously led me down the React path.

Design Systems go hand-in-hand with ReactJS, and after doing an online tutorial and playing around with it for a bit, I realised how much better it would be for my website than Angular.

## So this is it!

So I went ahead and rebuilt my portfolio site and blog from the ground up in React.

It's been great fun, and I've learned a lot doing it.

Finally, no more Angular OR Wordpress!

(Which also means I can now host this website on AWS, saving a LOT of money.)

So welcome, enjoy, and feel free to check out the source code on my <a href="https://github.com/sebcglbailey/Website2018/tree/master/personal-react-website" target="_blank">github</a>.