---
title: "The near future of design and prototyping"
date: "2018-09-07"
description: "A review of the Framer X Beta and how I think it will impact the design community"
author: "Sebastian Bailey"
fileName: "2018-09-07-framer-x.md"
keywords:
  - framer
  - prototyping
  - thoughts
  - coding
---

## The problem

What's the problem with the design process today?

As awesome as some of those dribbble shots may look, or how ingenious those concept projects on Behance are, there's one main problem with them all. How achievable are they actually?

The problem with the design process has been and will be for a while, the handover between design and development.

Designers can have some great (but crazy) ideas on how small micro-interactions can work, I've been there! And we can all have business deadlines to hit, and developers just won't be able to build them in time, or might need to rely too heavily on external dependencies.

## Trying to bridge that gap

There are plenty of tools that try and bridge the gap between design and development, but sometimes they just aren't good enough. Or things like <a href="" target="_blank">lottie</a>, might just put too much pressure on an external dependency.

### Where Framer X comes in to that

The great thing about Framer X, is that it's built on React, an ever increasingly popular javascript framework to build web applications.

This means a few things:
1. It's fast
2. It's powerful

  Wait for it...
3. You can use your production code, in design!

If you have an existing React library of components for your web application (or even React Native for your native apps), it means you can very easily port these over to Framer X, and have the designers using and interacting with the exact same components that the developers use.

### A single source of truth

This is amazing right?

Obviously there is some pipeline work to be done in order to be able to use the production components in Framer X, but it opens up a whole lot of possibilities.

No longer will the designers need to handover ever differing specs for their designs.

The developers will know exactly what components are being used.

> There is a common language used by all, and a common source for all of the elements used in a feature.

The thing I've always loved about Framer is that it brings designers closer to the code. I'm a big believer in designers being able to at least know the basics of the front end languages.

It's great being able to say you know a little about HTML & CSS, but knowing the structure of how an app is built, and the sorts of interactions that are possible with a little bit of javascript are a lot more powerful in being able to design for the the web.

Framer has always helped to start designers on that journey, and now with the impending release of Framer X, that bridge is shorter and stronger than ever.

## That's not all

Framer also has some great features as a design tool under the hood.

Much to my dismay, I keep seeing designers falling back on to Anima plugin for Sketch to stack their layers. I don't believe that having a dependency on an external plugin is a good idea, and that if someone was to download and change that sketch file, and not have anima installed, the functionality wouldn't be the same.

But Framer X has `Stacks`!

Built in to the core functionality of the design tool, is the ability to _seriously_ easily stack layers and frames within their parents, with flexible margins between them. Such a dream. And the first time I've seen something this powerful in a design tool.

They've also taken after Figma's great implementation of components, and not Sketch's inferior symbols, in that the instance of a design component is directly editable, and not via overrides. So thank you!

I'm very excited for the future of Framer X, and can't wait what the guys have in store for the future.

---

_**Disclaimer:** I am in no way sponsered or indorsed by Framer for this article. All of the above thoughts are my own, and I truly do believe that it will be a powerful and inspiring design tool to watch out for._