---
title: "The difference between UX & Product design"
date: "2018-09-03"
description: "My 2 cents on the argument going on in the last few days on twitter"
author: "Sebastian Bailey"
fileName: "2018-09-03-define-ux.md"
keywords:
  - ux
  - ui
  - thoughts
---

## What's the difference?

I've seen a few tweets flying around over the past few days around how to define a UX designer.

<a href="https://twitter.com/andybudd/status/1034618587955298304" target="_blank">Here's one from Andy Budd</a>

<a href="https://twitter.com/nickf/status/1035154104501198849" target="_blank">And another from Nick Finck</a>

People are taking a fairly solid stance on either end of the spectrum here. Some are saying that UX design as a practice has evolved into Digital Product Design. Whilst others are of the firm belief that a UX specific designer is a dying but necessary trade.

My opinion is this:

> Everyone involved in the process of building a product is in some ways a UX designer. Everyone that touches the product, from the user researches, and traditional designers, all the way through to the commercial team and engineers. A product designer is just somebody that can take a project through the majority of the design phase.

A UX designer in the traditional sense of the word, to me, is a designer that will be involved in user research, journey mapping, wireframes, interaction design, and information architectire. They won't necessarily do the visual design, as that would be down to the UI (or Visual) designer.

This does not mean however, that I believe this is all a UX designer should do. By definition they should be involved in every part of the process, just not necessarily doing the physical work. It is still their responsibility to make sure that the _experience_ of a product is a good one, and therefore will need to be involved in some way with visuals, interactions and animations, engineering, and even analytics.

I do think however that there is an obvious shift towards Product Design, especially in the last couple of years. UX used to be the buzzword of choice, but Product Design is starting to take its place.

## So why the need for a Product Designer?

In a smaller or just fast paced environment, there is a _huge_ reward in having a Product Designer over specified UX and UI designers. The process can be applied much quicker, and iterations (which are inevitible) are seamless, as they are between the same person.

However in larger organisations, where time is a luxury and they can afford to really take it with projects, I think there is a definite benefit to having those specialists, albeit at a higher level of experience, to really hone in on some areas.

Nothing will ever beat a real expert in a particular field, and when time and money are at hand, it certainly helps.

---

What do you think?

Tweet me <a href="http://twitter.com/home?status=The difference between a UX and Product Designer... @sebcglbailey" target="_blank">@sebcglbailey</a>